AlphaFold
https://deepmind.com/blog/article/alphafold-a-solution-to-a-50-year-old-grand-challenge-in-biology

In his acceptance speech for the 1972 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Christian Anfinsen famously postulated that, 
in theory, a protein’s amino acid sequence should fully determine its structure. 

This hypothesis sparked a five decade quest to be able to computationally 
predict a protein’s 3D structure 
based solely on its 1D amino acid sequence.

A major challenge, however, is that
the number of ways a protein could theoretically fold 
before settling into its final 3D structure 
is astronomical. 
Yet in nature, proteins fold spontaneously, some within milliseconds
– a dichotomy sometimes referred to as Levinthal’s paradox.

These exciting results open up the potential for biologists to
use computational structure prediction 
as a core tool in scientific research. 

Our methods may prove especially helpful for important classes of proteins, 
such as membrane proteins, 
that are very difficult to crystallise 
and therefore challenging to experimentally determine.

“AlphaFold’s astonishingly accurate models have allowed us to solve a protein structure we were stuck on for close to a decade, 
relaunching our effort to understand 
-> how signals are transmitted across cell membranes.”

In the meantime, we’re also looking into how protein structure predictions
could contribute to our understanding of specific diseases with a small number of specialist groups, for example by 
helping to identify proteins that have malfunctioned
and to reason about how they interact. 
These insights could enable more precise work on drug development, 
complementing existing experimental methods to find promising treatments faster.

As well as accelerating understanding of known diseases,
we’re excited about the potential for these techniques to explore the hundreds of millions of proteins
we don’t currently have models for 
– a vast terrain of unknown biology. 

Since DNA specifies the -amino acid sequences- 
that comprise protein structures, 
the genomics revolution has made it possible to read -protein sequences- from the natural world at massive scale
– with 180 million protein sequences and counting in the Universal Protein database (UniProt). 

In contrast, given the experimental work needed to go 
from sequence to structure, 
only around 170,000 protein structures are in the Protein Data Bank (PDB). 

Among the undetermined proteins may be some with new and exciting functions 
and – just as a telescope helps us see deeper into the unknown universe – 
techniques like AlphaFold may help us find them.


Unlocking new possibilities

AlphaFold is one of our most significant advances to date but, as with all scientific research, 
there are still many questions to answer. Not every structure we predict will be perfect. There’s still much to learn,
including how multiple proteins form complexes,
how they interact with DNA, RNA, or small molecules, 
and how we can determine the precise location of all amino acid side chains. 

In collaboration with others, there’s also much to learn about how best to use these scientific discoveries 
in the development of new medicines, ways to manage the environment, and more.


The 3D structure largely determines the function of the protein.











