"
Anything before, and anything after the root domain should be ignored. Focus on the root domain. 

https://www.apple.---->com-support.it/<------

It’s becoming more common for criminals to try and disguise the root domain with a SUBDOMAIN. 




-A green padlock doesn’t necessarily mean a website is safe. Make sure you check the website’s URL.

-If you’re ever unsure about the legitimacy of a website, stop! Google it
and follow the link provided to reach your destination.

-Add layers to your browser security.
Ensure the security settings are right and install our recommended extensions/add-ons.


Smart security can save you money. 
As a minimum, use an antivirus program, turn on your firewall and update when prompted.


Man-in-the-middle attacks
Data is intercepted by criminals as it moves between your device and the Wi-Fi hotspot.

Evil Access Point Attack
A fake Wi-Fi hotspot is created using a familiar name. When you connect, your data is stolen.


If the Wi-Fi on your phone or computer is always set to ‘On’, 
criminals can use readily available tools to create Wi-Fi hotspots to which your device automatically connects.

You can stop this happening simply by turning your Wi-Fi off when you’re not using it!
This is a quick, easy and effective method that gives you control over whether you connect to a hotspot or not.


Tethering is great if you need quick online access or for sending an urgent email, 
--additionally 3G or 4G connections mean data is a lot less susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks. --

-Never use public Wi-Fi to send sensitive information or to access a service that requires login information to use.
Protect yourself by tethering or using a VPN.


-For services you regularly use (Apple, Google, Bank account etc.),
simply --bookmark-- these pages for quick access, negating the need to click on links.

-What would you do if your computer, or a computer belonging to a family member, became infected with ransmware tomorrow?

You can, quite literally, become a hero simply by backing up important files. 
If we all did this, ransomware would become ineffective and would most likely disappear altogether.

-You can check where links lead by hovering over them with your mouse. 
The true destination will usually be displayed in the bottom left corner of your browser.

-Use VirusTotal.com if you’re ever presented with a shortened link, or you’re unsure about the legitimacy of a link, 
file or a website (security professionals use it all the time). 
Simply copy and paste the link, or upload the file, into the site’s search bar to see its true destination
and/or to get an indication of whether or not it’s safe to open. 
https://www.virustotal.com/#/home/upload


-Files ending .exe, .vbs and .scr all perform an action when opened.
If you see a file that contains any of these extensions, 
especially if what you think you are opening is meant to be a read only file,
such as a document, photo or video,
be cautious.

Macros are small pieces of code contained in Microsoft Office files. 
They’re sometimes used to distribute malware via seemingly legitimate Microsoft Office files. 
When using Microsoft Office files, keep the following in mind:

   - Do not enable Macros within a Microsoft file (such as Office, Powerpoint or Word)
    unless you know what they’re going to do (ie, you’re a developer).
   
   -Macro-enabled documents will have an ‘m’ in their file extension (.dotm, .xlsm, .pptm).
    
    -Turning off ‘Protected View’ mode may enable macros.

Be sure to enable the ‘Show file extensions’ option on your computer. 
Doing so allows you to check file types before opening them.


-Using a strong passphrase is the single most effective thing you can do to prevent yourself,
your family and/or your company from experiencing the pain of a successful cyber attack. 
It requires no more effort than remembering a few words. 
Think about how many lyrics you know for songs or poems. Clearly, remembering a few words isn’t so tough.


-1. Using a strong passphrase is the single most effective thing you can do to prevent cybercrime.





