-“If you sell your stock, someone else could buy it” 


-" Pitt trustees have a fiduciary responsibility to safeguard the endowment and its returns.  "
(the case to divest because of how fossil fuels are becoming risky due to stranded assests situation)

-Endowments are made up of thousands of different investment accounts,
many of which can be restricted. That means the donor specified what the money could be used for. 
Sometimes it's scholarships. Sometimes it's the library, or maybe it's the football team.

Here's an example: A donor gives money to an endowment to fund scholarships for 100 low-income students.
The fund's manager is obligated to invest that money in a way that it can fund 100 scholarships this year, 
and each year going forward.

If the donor wanted it to be a one-time gift to build a new student union building, 
they would do just that -- make a one-time gift rather than donating to the endowment. 

--Harvard' endowment is the universitiy's largest financial asset 
and is made of more that 13k funds.

"Each of Harvard’s twelve Schools “owns” its share of the endowment. 
Roughly 80 percent of the funds that make up the endowment are dedicated by the donor to 
a specific School. School revenue profiles vary widely, and each draws a different 
proportion of its budget from its endowment.

Contributions may be given in support of a specific School, 
program, or activity, and can only be used for those purposes."


-- 1,000 divestment commitments
https://gofossilfree.org/divestment/commitments/?akid=110275.1907496.yAvvj8&rd=1&t=9



-Vox 
"Nonetheless, the UC system’s divestment announcement is a huge win for climate activists and adds to the pressure 
on other universities that are still holding on to their investments in coal, oil, and natural gas.

    You know who's not enjoying that news? The presidents of Harvard, Yale, Stanford, UMich, and the many many
    many other schools that have refused to divest. If the biggest system in the country has decided 
    it must sell its oil stock, the pressure on these guys will go way up
    — Bill McKibben (@billmckibben) September 18, 2019 

Schools like Harvard and Yale that have declined to divest their multibillion-dollar endowments
from fossil fuels have argued that divestment adds an unnecessary political element to their portfolios.
Investment managers have also argued that they have a better chance at shaping a company’s behavior as an investor,
and that fossil fuels will continue to be burned for years, regardless of any divestment activity.

Activists counter that declining to divest is a political action. They also say that as lucrative as fossil fuels remain,
it’s still unethical to profit from them, logic that universities invoked when they divested from tobacco companies. 

- the argument that fossil fuel investments put Harvard’s endowment at great risk.
Given that only 565 more gigatons of carbon can be burnt if the planet hopes to stay under 2 degrees Celsius warming 
(the upper limit set by the UN), 80 percent of the top 200 publicly-traded
fossil fuel companies’ apparent reserves—worth $20 trillion—are untouchable.
This creates a huge carbon bubble in the market. Harvard lost 30 percent of its endowment from risky investing
when the housing bubble burst in 2008,
and the Divest Harvard campaign has argued that the University is repeating its mistake by investing in fossil fuels.

--“Divestiture does nothing to address that problem,” Wolak said. “As long as demand is still there for the fossil fuels,
the greenhouse-gas emissions will exist, regardless of who owns the assets.”


--There is much less money invested in coal firms, and their value is plummeting . That means coal divestment –
and investment in the alternatives such as clean energy – would be considerably easier.

-- BNEF’s analysis might suggest that targeting the coal industry is one way that divestment campaigners can chalk up
some climate success. But don’t get your hopes up too quickly – coal isn’t dead yet.

--"Unfortunately, many Vice Chancellors appear to regard this as too costly a divorce.
Better to hold out and hope their partner 
can change while continuing to bank the cheques. Money that would certainly come in handy when the storms hit.


-The lawsuit argues that Harvard’s continued investment in fossil fuels is
an abdication of its responsibilities to current and future generations of students.

“We are saying that investment in fossil fuels amounts to
mismanagement of public charitable funds,” 
said Alice Cherry, one of the law students bringing the suit. “The language of the charter says that Harvard
needs to protect the education and advancement 
of youth so that’s something we think is inconsistent with fossil fuel investments.”

-letter drew faust explaining why harvard won't divest:
https://www.harvard.edu/president/news/2013/fossil-fuel-divestment-statement

-“We’re asking Harvard: Whose side are you on?

-Pittsburg referedum 
https://pittnews.com/article/145484/news/peterson-wins-executive-vp/?fbclid=IwAR1_mBpDJrUPLHDYDhIIfznbz143v8MBVtf2hAUlw7_wyePeg


-Evidance that oil investment may not impact returns
https://www.thendobetter.com/investing/2018/6/22/divesting-sectors-the-impact-on-returns-evidence-that-oil-divestment-may-not-impact-returns
