- Forums for students to talk and learn about sustainability

- University of British Columbia "The university has a website dedicated to sustainability,
where students can find out more about what the university is doing to be more sustainable, 
upcoming events, tips on how to be more environmentally friendly
-----------> and student groups on climate action. 

-"The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill’s sustainability programme, 
the Three Zeros Environment Initiative, was established in 2016. The initiative aims to reduce
the campus environmental footprint in three ways: 
net zero water,
zero waste to landfills
and net zero greenhouse gases.
---------> The university marks its progress across these goals on the programme’s website.

-University at Buffalo "Some of these measures include introducing a car-sharing programme for staff and students
and encouraging students to use other modes of transport,
to offer students environmentally-themed courses
and incorporate sustainability into all courses across the curriculum. 

-Energy efficiency

-University of Waterloo

The Interdisciplinary 
Centre for Climate Change at the University of Waterloo has developed a number of initiatives 
that involve students in the climate change conversation. 

The Climate Students Group brings
together students across study levels and disciplines
to discuss and act on climate change. 

-Greener and more energy efficient campus




-Times Higher Education methodology for ranking universities in terms of climate action:


1. Research on climate action (27%)

    Proportion of papers in the top 10 per cent of journals as defined by Citescore (10%)
    Field-weighted citation index of papers produced by the university (10%)
    Number of publications (7%) 

This focuses on research that is relevant to climate action. 
The field-weighted citation index is a subject-normalised score of the citation performance of publications.

The data are provided by Elsevier’s Scopus dataset, based on a query of keywords associated with SDG 13 (climate action). It includes all indexed publications between 2013 and 2017. The data are normalised across its range using z-scoring. 


2. Low-carbon energy use (26.9%)

This measures the amount of renewable and low-carbon energy used by the institution. 
It refers to the gigajoule (GJ) of electrical energy provided by renewable or nuclear energy.

This data and evidence were provided directly by universities. 
The data are normalised across its range using z-scoring. 


3. Environmental education measures (46.1%)  (muy chidas)

    Providing local education around the impact of climate change (9.75%)
    Generating a university climate action plan (9.75%)
    Working with local or national government to address climate change planning (9.75%)
    Informing and supporting government on issues associated with climate change (8.45%)
    Collaborating with NGOs around climate change (8.4%) 

This data and evidence were provided directly by universities. 
The evidence was evaluated and scored by Times Higher Education and is not normalised.




- banning meat or, even better, making it very expensive 

-investing heavily in sustainability research

-work across interdisciplinary departments to tackle climate change.

-ensuring that students, regardless of what they are studying, 
understand about sustainable development and the climate emergency.

-putting their acres of land to good use by planting trees.”

- “Universities can play a role in hopefully informing people, informing governments, informing policy, 

-The results showed that many universities in the country showed improvements in
teaching and learning in 
the ‘sustainable development education’ section, 
but government hinderance may be delaying their efforts.

- WUR also produces
its own 
renewable energy through windmills, solar panels and other methods, 
meaning that in 2017 104 percent of the energy consumed on campus was through sustainable methods.

-Wageningen (WUR)  measures its carbon footprint every year 
(with recent figures indicating the university halved its carbon footprint between 2010 and 2017).

-University of Nottingham
The university also encourages students to get involved with sustainability in various ways,
from Student SwitchOffs (with the student hall of residence that saves the most energy winning a party 
and Ben & Jerry’s ice cream), to the campus-wide ‘WasteNott’ campaign which aims to halve the amount of
hot drink single-use cups used on campus by August 2020, in response to a student survey which found that
94 percent of students would commit to using reusable cups. The university is also installing more water fountains, 
replacing plastic straws with paper ones and offering a discount on hot drinks when people bring their own cup.

- "When college campuses engage in the green movement, they not only reduce energy waste and increase utility bill savings,
they also invest in the future by encouraging their students 
to become leaders and activists with a genuine interest and concern for the world.

-Only signatories of the Presidents’ Climate Leadership Commitments are part of the Climate Leadership Network.
The costs needed to meet the requirements of the Commitments, such as measuring emissions, creating and implementing 
a climate action plans, will vary between schools and over time. However, there is considerable
evidence and many case-studies that demonstrate attractive returns on investment for emissions reduction activities.

the potential costs of delays and inaction are far higher than any opportunity costs
associated with foresighted, proactive investments today. Efforts to reduce GHG emissions and increase resilience 
should be viewed as investments, not costs, 
as they improve quality of life and the educational experience, and avoid long-term costs. 

-http://www.intentionalendowments.org/roadmap
This Roadmap guides investors through key steps toward creating intentionally designed endowments 
– those that look to align investment practices with institutional mission through sustainable investing (SI),
which includes explicitly considering long-term environmental, social, and governance issues in the investment process


- puro bla bla 
Separately, some universities also got together to affirm their intention to stand by the Paris Agreement. 
Johns Hopkins, Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Duke, Georgetown, Harvard, MIT, 
Penn, Stanford, and Yale signed a separate pact to strengthen their resolve to limit carbon emissions.

Yale has joined Johns Hopkins University and several of our peer schools in signing the
----Affirmation of University Commitment to Global Progress on Climate Change.-----
This statement reiterates Yale’s longstanding pledge to address the threats posed by climate change. 

- Yale

In 2015, in response to a White House call to action, Yale signed the 
American Campuses Act on Climate Pledge, 
agreeing to accelerate our transition to low-carbon energy while enhancing sustainable and resilient practices
across the university.
As part of these efforts, Yale’s campus will be carbon-neutral by 2050. 

Yale’s Sustainability Plan 2025 
details our institutional commitment, and recent milestones reflect progress in many areas. 

-318 institutions of higher education in signing the
-----American Campuses Act on Climate Pledge------

-Sustainable Infrastructure

Universities around the world are making sustainable energy a priority in their campus infrastructure,
so new projects are almost always being built with sustainability in mind. These environmental initiatives 
are reducing energy costs,
countering carbon emissions, and making a
visible commitment to sustainability evident to all. 

-Kevin Wildes, president of Loyola University in New Orleans,
 said. “If not the intellectual centers forming futuristic progress, then who will step up to the plate?”
 
 -Hundreds of colleges and universities already pledged to achieve carbon neutrality as signatories of the
 ---Climate Leadership Commitment.---
 
 “Engaging students on college campuses across the country helps train activists and leaders
 we’ll need to make the clean energy transition.”
 
 -2017 " Environment America and the Student Public Interest Research Groups (PIRGs) launched 
 a campaign to secure commitments 
 from American colleges and universities to shift to 100 percent renewable energy. 
 
 -in 2006, the American College and University Presidents' Climate Commitment (ACUPCC)
 was created and 12 university presidents agreed
 to commit to carbon neutrality, conduct an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions, and create a climate change action. 

-"Higher education often serves as an early adopter for practices that have 
broader social impact -- this is implicit in the non-profit status held by many of these institutions. 

 -a handful have achieved carbon neutrality status." 
 
 -"Beyond the contributions of the institution as a whole, the success of higher education is by and large a result
 of its stakeholders, particularly college
 students that have become climate activists on campus. 
 When asked about the role of students in these conversations, Carter simply said it was "huge." 
 He then went on to say that "the primary 'clients' in higher education are students.
 Presidents especially respond to them and many of the largest movements, 
 from decarbonization efforts to divestment campaigns have been driven by students.
 The student-led efforts are even more effective when integrated across the broader set of campus stakeholders."

In some cases, students are able to forge relationships with other stakeholders 
to widen the scope of climate issues. At Tufts University, faculty and students built a collaborative,
interdisciplinary program on climate issues that has existed since 1998.

-individual institutions acting in isolation is not sufficient for the changes needed. 
We need scaled actions that include multiple institutions working together on shared climate solution projects 
that can quickly scale." He added, "This may be shared infrastructure investment such as large-scale 
renewable energy purchases that involve more than one institution, as well as cross-sector activities
such as advocating together for state-level climate policies that allow for goals to be met. 
Scale is critical if we are to accelerate progress. We can only do that by working efficiently and effectively together." 

-In David Orr's book "Earth in Mind," he asserts,
"The kind of education we need begins with the recognition that the crisis of global ecology is first and foremost 
a crisis of values, ideas, perspectives, and knowledge,
which makes it a crisis of education, not one in education."

-The idea behind the 
---University Global Compact---
is to form a global platform of universities and other higher education organizations
committed to working together and in partnership with the United Nations (through UNITAR), SDSN, 
and other relevant organizations, in support of the Sustainable Development Goals 
both locally and globally through our education, research and service missions.

The consensus of the participants in the Bellagio Conference was that universities not only have an opportunity, 
but an obligation, to do whatever is in their power to educate and
inspire students
to play an active role in addressing the most pressing issues confronting our world today,
produce new ideas that can lead to new solutions, and collaborate with other organizations to create awareness, 
support and even lead local and global efforts.

- Through the 
----American College & University Presidents’ Climate Commitment (ACUPCC),----
over 665 institutions have pledged to pursue climate neutrality in their operations and provide the education, 
research, and community engagement needed for the rest of society to do the same. 
To date, over 600 ACUPCC institutions have publicly reported their greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions inventories and 
over 400 have published climate action plans, available at www.acupcc.org/reportingsystem. 

--------------https://reporting.secondnature.org/-------------


-ACUPCC institutions have agreed to:[7]

    Complete an emissions inventory.
    Within two years, set a target date and interim milestones for becoming climate neutral.
    Take immediate steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by choosing from a list of short-term actions.
    Integrate sustainability into the curriculum and make it part of the educational experience.
    Make the action plan, inventory and progress reports publicly available.

-In 2015,
---------------Second Nature rebranded and expanded the ACUPCC to form the
---------------Presidents’ Climate Leadership Commitments.

-----College and University Recycling Coalition--------http://curc3r.org/


--The vote made Harvard College the first school in the nation to pass a 
student referendum 
in support of fossil fuel divestment.


-Members of Divest Harvard have pointed out the hypocrisy of educational institutions like Harvard using their money
to support industries that threaten the future of their students
by causing global warming. They also make the argument that fossil fuel investments put Harvard’s endowment at great risk.

-Noting the widespread agreement that setting a price on carbon is the most effective approach
to reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, he said that actually designing
and implementing such a mechanism is a challenge worthy of MIT, and one that could be 
adopted and tested at a campus level to set an example.

--"MIT is an instructive case, because it decided to actually work closer with the fossil fuel companies,
through engagement in a five year climate change research program.

It argued that engagement with BP, Eni, ExxonMobil, Saudi Aramco, and Shell was necessary, 
to innovate and develop the new technologies and behaviours which could motivate further transitions to a sustainable economy.
It will do this via a series of projects that will be funded to the tune of $300million.

This will be coordinated by the Environmental Solutions Initiative (ESI) and the MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI). 
The MITEI is one MIT's major research centres having attracted some $600 million of funding,
the top sponsors being - can you guess? - BP, Eni, ExxonMobil, Saudi Aramco and Shell.

- institutions of higher learning have two major advantages:

First, academic communities have a greater degree of consensus around climate change issues than exists in the wider public. 
Second, they still possess governance structures, 
even if at times unwieldy ones, that can achieve --manageable, locally defined environmental goals.--

--Middlebury college
I didn’t quite understand it. Why do they keep meeting, I wondered, if they never come to consensus?
But then it occurred to me: what kept them together was 
the fact that they took pride in our environmental education, and they needed to keep that pride.
There was an unspoken bond between all of the people who were faithfully disagreeing for years.
That’s why they kept coming together.

Use basic consensus to imagine change. 
Once I understood this sense of common pride in our environmental educational traditions, 
I began to understand how we could come together.
We needed to focus on the educational aspect of the issues, not the political ones.

Of course, it’s hard to untangle the political and the educational -- especially now, when common educational values
have become politicized. But the students asked us one thing:
“As educators, what is your intergenerational commitment to us?” 
They didn’t ask what our different “stances” were on any of the issues before us, 
but rather, how we were going to educate them, as our mission statement promised,
“to address the world’s most challenging problems.” 
That simple question focused our minds to work together 
in a way that no political debate ever could have.

Once people saw momentum in our environmental conversations, 
small and large forms of governance began to coalesce into something like organizational power.

The word I kept hearing last month was pride. Pride in our educational commitment provided the consensus that kept us 
at the table for longer than most reasonable people would stay. 
It was also the consensus that allowed our conversations to focus on local renewable energy solutions.

 So when we designed the final plan, we focused on interdependence. No single part of the plan was going
 to work without the other, and no part of the plan could be approved without the other.

Our insistence on interdependence reduced the potential toxic competition among groups
that would undermine our common purpose. But it also preserved the collaborative competition among them 
that would increase our common purpose.

Each group accomplished their particular goals as a result. When Divest Midd students traded in their orange patches 
for equally bright ones that said “Energy2028,” that was sheer brilliance on their part, and I was inspired.

Even if such a high degree of basic consensus doesn’t exist on a college campus, 
colleges and universities have traditions of scientific and humanistic inquiry 
that can create a baseline for climate change conversations.
Every campus needs to use that baseline and the pride in that tradition of inquiry to keep faithfully disagreeing.

In this most crucial of environmental ages,
educational institutions have the distinct capacity to persevere in pursuing local change.
